---
layout: post
title: From UX to X
description: Why should we care about the user's experience or our own for that matter?
summary: Why should we care about the user's experience or our own for that matter?
comments: true
tags: [ux]
---

UX (user experience) is a thriving discipline with invaluable strategies for building user centered apps. There are tons of awesome articles on tricks and tactics to craft great UX. But what is experience, if I may be so bold to ask? And why should we care about the user's experience or our own for that matter?

As everybody knows, some types of experience are obvious and others are easy to miss. A whole lot of things happen before we can get to the _user_ part of experience, or that may actively prevent the _user_ from emerging at all. For example, a site's backend is slow in loading, preventing a potential visitor from accessing a landing page, or the site is not mobile responsive causing frustrated visitors to bounce before trying to squeeze the content to their viewport.

I think poor UX is a function of poor X. Once the label _user_ is put on experience, it's as if experience is demoted to second class status. But as developers who hope to enter a person's experience stream, our work needs to strike a balance between interrupting and merging into the person's experiential state as unobtrusively as possible.

Experience is the backdrop against which good UX is measured.

Reading:

Michael Morgan, [Delivering Meaning to Your Stakeholders](https://www.uxmatters.com/mt/archives/2020/10/delivering-meaning-to-your-stakeholders.php)
