---
layout: post
title: Loops
description: In the movie Groundhog Day, Phil Conners's revelation isn't limited to one day, but grows as a result of him maintaining his state after each iteration of the loop. What's interesting to me is his reluctant acceptance of what the repetition represents. In essence, Conners is presented with a choice, either accept to live in this moment forever, or deny it and self destruct.
summary:
comments: true
tags: [loops]
---

In the movie Groundhog Day, Phil Conners's revelation isn't limited to one day, but grows as a result of him maintaining his state after each iteration of the loop. What's interesting to me is his reluctant acceptance of what the repetition represents. In essence, Conners is presented with a choice, either accept to live in this moment forever, or deny it and self destruct.

Given how much emphasis our culture places on overcomming obstacles by sheer grit and determination, it's no surprise that, for some, <a href="https://www.happyscribe.com/public/hidden-brain/minimizing-pain-maximizing-joy#paragraph_423?utm_source=public_transcript&utm_medium=paragraph&utm_campaign=public_promo" target="_blank">the obvious moral lesson is to not get stuck in mental loops and that how we choose to view the obstacles in our lives is an essential part in how we overcome them</a>.

The problem for me isn't that getting stuck in a loop is a depressing thought. That's the conventional way to think about loops. What I'm curious about is not what my perception tells me about the loop, but what the scale of the loop tells me about why I'm stuck. As anyone knows who writes code knows, there's a moment when you run the program and the console goes haywire. Somewhere in the code is a bug that's producing an infinite loop.

In my view, Nietzsche's famous Gay Science 341 passage describes such an infinite loop. In this passage the reader is asked to imagine a demon introducing the hearer to a colossal moment where he is told that his life will repeat in all its details including the moment when the demon is speaking. Very few people have noticed the true scale of this moment. But as Paul Loeb explains, "Nietzsche's implicit ethical recommendation is that I must change my life so that I am better disposed to myself and to life––so well disposed, in fact, that I long for the eternal repetition of its every detail" (444).

In Phil Connor's case, the scale of the loop itself and his progressive, hard won, acceptance of it is what's making him stronger. The transformation begins when he realizes he can build a different self upon an infinite loop.

So the question I'm holding is, what do we gain or lose by reimagining the scale of the loops in our lives?

Reading: \
Loeb, Paul S. "<a href="https://www.academia.edu/34667598/The_Colossal_Moment_in_Nietzsches_Gay_Science_341" target="_blank">The Colossal Moment in Nietzsche's Gay Science 341</a>" _The Nietzschean Mind_, edited by Paul Katsafanas, Routledge, 2017, pp. 428-447.
