---
layout: post
title: Irvine
description: In _Palm Springs_ Roy asks Nyles, when the later is in a particularly despondent mood inside the infinte loop, "where's your Irvine?"
summary: In essence, Roy is saying to Nyles that he needs to find his home. He also needs to keep watch for a long time and keep returning to that place where his discomfort can sublimate into something more wholesome over time.
comments: true
tags: [loops]
---

In _Palm Springs_ Roy asks Nyles, when the later is in a particularly despondent mood inside the infinte loop, "where's your Irvine?"

For Roy his Irvine is actually in Irvine, CA. It's the place where Nyles comes to in desperation after losing Sarah, who he accidentally coaxed into the infinte loop after a night of reckless seduction.

Roy, who was similarly coaxed, is Nyles's nemesis turned confidant. In this moment, sitting in Roy's perfectly manicured back yard, grilling for his kids and drinking beers, he accepts Nyles as a son, in a way. After expressing his cycles of grief toward Nyles through various murderous permutations, Roy has arrived at a place where he can impart some wisdom to Nyles. I would even say that they've arrived at a place of love after unleashing on each other the most sadistic versions of themselves and letting those extinguish from an infinitely extended time horizon.

In essence, Roy is saying to Nyles that he needs to find his home. He also needs to keep watch for a long time and keep returning to that place where his discomfort can sublimate into something more wholesome over time.

Lately I've been using the idea of being close to home as a shorthand for being more centered, being more present in my day to day. Of course, I haven't had to go through thousands or millions of iterations to find my Irvine, but the forced isolation of our pandemic has aided in the discovery.

Reading: \
Wilson, Robert A. _Prometheus Rising_. Hilaritas Press, 2016.
